README split, edits, examples (#346)
diffkemp/diffkemp: docs/usage.md

which fits your needs. The chosen command should be run twice, once for each of
the compared versions.

### a) `build`: snapshot generation of `make`-based projects

```sh
diffkemp build PROJ_DIR SNAPSHOT_DIR [SYMBOL_LIST]
```

This is the default snapshot generation command for `make`-based projects. It
takes the project located in `PROJ_DIR`, builds it into LLVM IR, and creates
a snapshot for comparing the semantics of functions from `SYMBOL_LIST` (if no
list is given, all exported functions from the project are considered).
The snapshot is stored in `SNAPSHOT_DIR`. Warning: if `SNAPSHOT_DIR` exists,
it will be overwritten.

The command can be also used to generate a snapshot from a single C file.
In this case, the path to the file should be given in place of `PROJ_DIR`.

#### Options

- `--no-opt-override`: Uses optimisation options provided in the project's
  Makefile or specified with `--clang-append="-OX"`. With this option DiffKemp
  can potentially handle more complex refactoring (report fewer false
  positives). However, this may reduce precision in identifying the exact
  location of semantic differences (eg. reporting if a difference is in

>   a macro).

Author: Yes, you are right.

- `--clang-append="..."`: Allows specifying options that will be appended to
  `clang` when compiling source files to LLVM IR.
- Additional options to configure the project build, see `diffkemp build --help`

>   for the complete list.

Author: I added all options with descriptions to all commands, for some commands I rewrote the description from help with some rewording, for other I added some notes (eg. that `--enable-all-patterns` also runs the `control-flow-only` pattern which is not semantic-preserving. I have not yet used all options so if anybody has some useful notes which could be added, let me know. Also potentially we could leave adding the options to docs for another PR.

takes the project located in `PROJ_DIR`, builds it into LLVM IR, and creates
a snapshot for comparing the semantics of functions from `SYMBOL_LIST` (if no
list is given, all exported functions from the project are considered).
The snapshot is stored in `SNAPSHOT_DIR`. Warning: if `SNAPSHOT_DIR` exists,
it will be overwritten.

The command can be also used to generate a snapshot from a single C file.
In this case, the path to the file should be given in place of `PROJ_DIR`.

#### Options

- `PROJ_DIR`: Path to a project's root directory or a path to a single C file.
- `SNAPSHOT_DIR`: Output directory for storing the created snapshot.
- `SYMBOL_LIST`: Path to file containing a list of symbols (each symbol on
   a single line) which should be prepared for comparison.
- `--no-opt-override`: Uses optimisation options provided in the project's
  Makefile or specified with `--clang-append="-OX"`. With this option, DiffKemp
  can potentially handle more complex refactoring (report fewer false
  positives). However, this may reduce precision in identifying the exact
  location (e.g. function or macro) of a semantic difference.

> - `--target TARGET`: Allows specifying make targets which should be used to

Reviewer: Let's try to use code-style formatting consistently. Especially `make` is important as it's a common verb in English and not formatting it makes the sentences harder to understand.
```suggestion
- `--target TARGET`: Allows specifying `make` targets which should be used to
```
Please also check other places (I may have missed something).

  build the snapshot from the project.

> - `--reconfigure`: Reconfigures autotools-based project with `CC='DiffKemp
>   compiler wrapper'`.

Reviewer: Slightly more understandable (at least to me) that it's not a string but a path to the wrapper.
```suggestion
- `--reconfigure`: Reconfigures autotools-based project with `CC=<DiffKemp
  compiler wrapper>`.
```

requires the `cscope` tool to be installed.

#### Comparing sysctl options

DiffKemp supports also a comparison of semantics of sysctl options. The list
of the options to compare can be passed via `SYMBOL_LIST` to the `build-kernel`
command. In such case, use `--sysctl` switch to generate snapshot for sysctl
parameter comparison. The `compare` command is used in normal way.

Sysctl option comparison compares the semantics of the proc handler function and
semantics of all functions using the data variable that the sysctl option sets.

It is possible to use patterns to specify a number of multiple sysctl options at
once such as:

- `kernel.*`
- `kernel.{sysctl-1|sysctl-2}`

Currently, these sysctl option groups are supported: `kernel.*`,
`vm.*`, `fs.*`, `net.core.*`, `net.ipv4.conf.*`.

#### Options

- `KERNEL_DIR`: Path to a kernel's root directory.
- `SNAPSHOT_DIR`: Output directory for storing the created snapshot.
- `SYMBOL_LIST`: Path to a file containing a list of symbols (each symbol on
  a single line) to be prepared for comparison.
  In case `--sysctl` is used, the list is interpreted as a list of sysctl
  parameters.
- `--sysctl`: Compares sysctl option.

> - `--no-souce-dir`: Does not store the path to the source kernel directory in
>   the snapshot.

Reviewer: A bit of more context (check wrapping please, it's just random):
```suggestion
- `--no-souce-dir`: Does not store the path to the source kernel directory in
  the snapshot. This is useful if the comparison is done on a different system
  than building the snapshot (i.e. the path to the original kernel tree does not
  exist anymore). May lead to generating more false positives in some situations.
```

```sh
diffkemp llvm-to-snapshot PROJ_DIR LLVM_FILE SNAPSHOT_DIR SYMBOL_LIST
```

This command can be used if the project is already compiled into a single
LLVM IR file.
The file name is given in `LLVM_FILE` and must be relative to `PROJ_DIR`.

#### Options

- `PROJ_DIR`: Path to a project's root directory.
- `LLVM_FILE`: Path to the LLVM IR file relative to the project's root
  directory.
- `SNAPSHOT_DIR`: Output directory for storing the created snapshot.
- `SYMBOL_LIST`: Path to a file containing a list of symbols (each symbol on
  a single line) which should be prepared for comparison.

## 2. Semantic comparison command

```sh
diffkemp compare SNAPSHOT_DIR_1 SNAPSHOT_DIR_2
```

This command takes two snapshots and compares them for semantic equality.

Syntactic diffs of the discovered differences are stored in separate files
(one file for each compared function that is different) in a newly created
directory. The name of the directory can be specified using the `-o` option,
otherwise it is generated automatically.

### Options

- `SNAPSHOT_DIR_1`, `SNAPSHOT_DIR_2`: Paths to directories containing snapshots
  of the project's version to be compared.

> - `--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR`, `-o OUTPUT_DIR`: Name of the output directory.

Reviewer: I think this is understandable and shorter:
```suggestion
- `-o`, `--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR`: Name of the output directory.
```
Same for the other options below which have both the short and the long variant.

- `--custom-patterns CUSTOM_PATTERNS`, `-p CUSTOM_PATTERNS`: Path to a custom
  pattern file or a configuration.
- `--show-diff`: Shows/creates syntactic diffs for symbols evaluated as
  semantically different (used by default, `--no-show-diff` turns this off).
- `--full-diff`: Shows syntactic diff for all functions (even semantically
  equivalent ones).
- `--enable-pattern`, `--disable-pattern`: Enables/disables specified built-in
  pattern(s).

> - `--enable-all-patterns`,`--disable-all-patterns`: Enables/disables all
>   supported built-in patterns. Be careful with `--enable-all-patterns`, as it
>   also enables the `control-flow-only` pattern, which is not
>   semantic-preserving.

Reviewer: There are more patterns which are disabled by default. How about this:
```suggestion
- `--enable-all-patterns`,`--disable-all-patterns`: Enables/disables all
  supported built-in patterns. Be careful, `--enable-all-patterns`
  also enables patterns which are not on by default and may not be 
  semantics preserving.
```
Later, we'll add a reference to the documentation of patterns.

> - `--report-stat`: Reports basic statics of the analysis -- the number of
>   symbols evaluated as `equal` and `not equal` and other statistics:

Reviewer: Let's put all parts to the list:
```suggestion
- `--report-stat`: Reports basic statics of the analysis:
  - `equal`: ...
  - `not equal`: ...
```

  - `empty diff`: Reports for how many not-equal symbols were found
    differences in symbols with no syntax difference.
  - `unknown`: Represents how many symbols DiffKemp could not evaluate
    (mainly caused by the symbol occurrence only in one version of
    the program),
  - `errors`: Represents symbols for which the comparison failed.

> - `--extended-stat`: Reports extended statistics -- total number of compared
>   functions (including called ones) and other information, such as the number
>   of compared instructions and the total number of found differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--extended-stat`: Reports extended statistics -- total number of compared
  functions (including called ones) and other information, such as the number
  of compared instructions and the total number of found differences. Beware
  that this may increase the analysis time.
```

- `--show-errors`: Show functions that are either unknown or ended with an
  error in statistics.

> - `--stdout`: Mainly for development, prints results to standard output instead
>   of saving them to the directory.

Reviewer: Not necessarily for development only:
```suggestion
- `--stdout`: Prints results to standard output instead
  of saving them to the directory.
```

LLVM IR file.
The file name is given in `LLVM_FILE` and must be relative to `PROJ_DIR`.

#### Options

- `PROJ_DIR`: Path to a project's root directory.
- `LLVM_FILE`: Path to the LLVM IR file relative to the project's root
  directory.
- `SNAPSHOT_DIR`: Output directory for storing the created snapshot.
- `SYMBOL_LIST`: Path to a file containing a list of symbols (each symbol on
  a single line) which should be prepared for comparison.

## 2. Semantic comparison command

```sh
diffkemp compare SNAPSHOT_DIR_1 SNAPSHOT_DIR_2
```

This command takes two snapshots and compares them for semantic equality.

Syntactic diffs of the discovered differences are stored in separate files
(one file for each compared function that is different) in a newly created
directory. The name of the directory can be specified using the `-o` option,
otherwise it is generated automatically.

### Options

- `SNAPSHOT_DIR_1`, `SNAPSHOT_DIR_2`: Paths to directories containing snapshots
  of the project's version to be compared.
- `-o`, `--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR`: Name of the output directory.
- `-p`, `--custom-patterns CUSTOM_PATTERNS`: Path to a custom pattern file or
  a configuration.

> - `--show-diff`: Shows/creates syntactic diffs for symbols evaluated as
>   semantically different (used by default, `--no-show-diff` turns this off).

Reviewer: Nit: since `--show-diff` is used by default, we should rather state `--no-show-diff` here:
```suggestion
- `--no-show-diff`: Do not show/create syntactic diffs for symbols evaluated as
  semantically different.
```

Author: Thanks, fixed.
